README.md, before:


# LIVE WEATHER APP (REACT + APIs + )   

## **NOTE : ** Currently under development phase ( Please do not consider it as a final project )

<br>

## 🎓 &nbsp;Description

- A Weather Application that allows users to check the current weather for a location by making asynchronous requests (AJAX) to a weather API.

<br>

## ✍️ &nbsp;Features


1. **Homepage:** provides a simple user interface. Include a search
input field where users can enter a location (e.g., city or ZIP code) and a "Get Weather"
button to trigger the weather request.

2. **Weather Display:** Display the current weather conditions for the specified location.
Include details such as temperature, humidity, wind speed, and weather description. Here , The weather api used is "OpenWeatherMap" to fetch this data.

3. **Unit Selection:** Allow users to switch between temperature units (e.g., Celsius and
Fahrenheit). Implemented with a dropdown to switch between units, and ensured that the
weather data is updated accordingly.

4. **Optional: Geolocation:** Offer the option to use the user's geolocation to automatically
fetch the weather for their current location. Ensure that you request and handle geolocation
permissions appropriately.

5. *Styling:* CSS styles have applied to make the app visually appealing and ensure a good user
experience. Pay attention to layout, color scheme, and readability.

7. **Responsive Design:** I have ensured that the app is responsive and functions well on both
desktop and mobile devices. Test its usability on various screen sizes.

<br/>

## 💻 &nbsp;Install and Run Project

### Method 1

**Follow Steps**
- Fork or download the repo.
- Open VS Code (Code Editor with Live Server Extension)
-  Click on "Go Live"

Now, https://localhost:5050 may run this website at your own PC or system .



### Method 2
🎯 &nbsp;**Website Link (Deployed as Github Pages)** [WeatherApp.in](https://shauryasingh-official.github.io/WeatherWebApp/)

<br/>

## 🔧 &nbsp;Technologies and Skills used - 

- 📲 &nbsp;**FRONTEND : -** HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.
- 🛒 &nbsp;**OTHER : -** Nodemon, Postman, Visual Studio Code (Cross Origin Resource Sharing), 
<br/> etc.

<br>


## 💬 &nbsp;Challenges faced

There are many challenges faced during the development some of these are as - 
- How to deal with third party APIs,
- Make application Responsive
- How to deal with complex projects.
- Make UI more Attractive with modern approaches such as   
  -  Create unit conversion feature ,
  -  Auto fetch user location ,
<br/> etc.

- How to deal with various type of errors.
- How to use remote database and integrate with project using event handlers.
- etc . 

<br/>

## 💼 &nbsp;Credits
The complete Weather Dashboard is developed by Sourav Kumar (Shaurya) .
<h3> 🤝🏻 Connect with Sourav Kumar via -  </h3>

<p align="center">
&nbsp; <a href="https://twitter.com/ShauryaSingh_SK" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/twitter.png" width="50" /></a>  
&nbsp; <a href="https://www.facebook.com/skumar.varshney.507/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/facebook-new.png" width="50" /></a>  
&nbsp; <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/imshauryasingh/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/linkedin.png" width="50" /></a>
&nbsp; <a href="mailto:souravk48560gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/gmail.png"  width="50" /></a>
</p>


<br><br>
⭐️ From [ShauryaSingh-Official](https://github.com/ShauryaSingh-Official)

Commit message:

New Update Feature info Added README.md

README.md, after:


# LIVE WEATHER APP (HTML + CSS + JavaScript + OpenWeatherAPI )   

<br>

## 🎓 &nbsp;Description

- It is a web application that allows users to check the current weather for a location by making asynchronous requests (AJAX) to a weather API. The app displays weather data in a user-friendly format and handle error cases gracefully.

<br>

## ✍️ &nbsp;Features (How to use Weather App)


1. **Homepage:** provides a simple user interface. Include a search input field where users can enter a location (e.g., city or ZIP code) and a "Get Weather" button to trigger the weather request.

2. **Weather Display:** My weather app displays the current weather conditions for the specified location. Include details such as temperature, humidity, wind speed, and weather description. The weather API used to fetch this data is "OpenWeatherMap".

3. **Unit Selection:** This feature allows users to switch between temperature units (e.g., Celsius and Fahrenheit). A dropdown is used to switch between units, and ensure that the weather data is updated accordingly.

4. **Styling:** A good CSS styles are applied to make the app visually appealing and ensured a good user experience. Our are focuesd and Paid attention to layout, color scheme, and readability.

5. **Responsive Design:** The app is responsive and functions well on both desktop and mobile devices. It's usability is tested on various screen sizes. design.

6. **Error Handling:**
There are many errors handled for cases where the location entered by the user is not found or when there is an issue with the API request. we have displayed a user-friendly error message and guide the user on how to proceed.

<br/>

## &nbsp;Future Updates

1. **Optional: Geolocation:** I will offered the option to use the user's geolocation to automatically fetch the weather for their current location.(If permissions are allowed)


<br/>

## 💻 &nbsp;Install and Run Project

### Method 1

**Follow Steps**
- Fork or download the repo.
- Open VS Code (Code Editor with Live Server Extension)
-  Click on "Go Live"

Now, https://localhost:5050 may run this website at your own PC or system .



### Method 2
🎯 &nbsp;**Website Link (Deployed as Github Pages)** [WeatherApp.in](https://shauryasingh-official.github.io/WeatherWebApp/)

<br/>




## 🔧 &nbsp;Technologies and Skills used - 

- 📲 &nbsp;**FRONTEND : -** HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.
- 🛒 &nbsp;**OTHER : -** Postman, Visual Studio Code (Cross Origin Resource Sharing), Responsive Design, Error Handling
<br/> etc.

<br>


## 💬 &nbsp;Challenges faced

There are many challenges faced during the development some of these are as - 
- How to deal with third party APIs,
- Make application Responsive
- How to deal with complex projects.
- Make UI more Attractive with modern approaches such as   
  -  Create unit conversion feature ,
  -  Auto fetch user location ,
<br/> etc.

- How to deal with various type of errors (Error Handling).
- How to use remote database and integrate with project using event handlers.
- etc . 

<br/>

## 💼 &nbsp;Credits
The complete Weather Dashboard is developed by Sourav Kumar (Shaurya) .
<h3> 🤝🏻 Connect with Sourav Kumar via -  </h3>

<p align="center">
&nbsp; <a href="https://twitter.com/ShauryaSingh_SK" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/twitter.png" width="50" /></a>  
&nbsp; <a href="https://www.facebook.com/skumar.varshney.507/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/facebook-new.png" width="50" /></a>  
&nbsp; <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/imshauryasingh/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/linkedin.png" width="50" /></a>
&nbsp; <a href="mailto:souravk48560gmail.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img src="https://img.icons8.com/plasticine/100/000000/gmail.png"  width="50" /></a>
</p>


<br><br>
⭐️ From [ShauryaSingh-Official](https://github.com/ShauryaSingh-Official)
